#### Declarative better than operational
Almost always, declarative specifications are preferable. They’re usually <font color="#92d050">shorter, easier to understand</font>, and most importantly, they don’t inadvertently expose implementation details that a client may rely on (and then find no longer hold when the implementation is changed). For example, if we want to allow either implementation of `find`, we would _not_ want to say in the spec that the method “goes down the array until it finds `val`,” since aside from being rather vague, this spec suggests that the search proceeds from lower to higher indices and that the lowest will be returned, which perhaps the specifier did not intend.
### Stronger better than weaker
  
A specification S2 is stronger than or equal to a specification S1 if and only if
- S2’s **precondition** is <font color="#92d050">weaker</font> than or equal to S1’s,  
    and
- S2’s **postcondition** is <font color="#92d050">stronger</font> than or equal to S1’s, for the states that satisfy S1’s precondition.


### Precondition？
The decision of whether to use a precondition is an engineering judgment. The key factors are the cost of the check (in writing and executing code), and the scope of the method. If it’s only called locally in a class, the precondition can be discharged by carefully checking all the sites that call the method. **But if the method is public, and used by other developers, it would be less wise to use a precondition.** Instead, like the Java API classes, you should throw an exception as a postcondition.