 Now suppose we decide that `==` should automatically convert different types before comparing them. If the righthand side of `==` has a different type than the lefthand side, then the **righthand side converts itself to the type of the lefthand** side before testing for equality.

### Equality of immutable types
Formally, we can define equality on immutable types in two ways.

**Using the abstraction function**. Recall that an abstraction function AF: R → A maps concrete instances of a data type to their corresponding abstract values. To use AF as a definition for equality, we would say that a equals b if and only if AF(a) = AF(b).

**Using observation**. We can say that two objects are equal when they cannot be distinguished by observation – every operation we can apply produces the same result for both objects.

### == vs. equals()

|                                                                                     | _reference  <br>equality_ | _object  <br>equality_ |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------- | ---------------------- |
| Java                                                                                | `==`                      | `equals()`             |
| [](https://web.mit.edu/6.031/www/sp21/classes/15-equality/#@objective_c)Objective C | `==`                      | `isEqual:`             |
| C#                                                                                  | `==`                      | `Equals()`             |
| [](https://web.mit.edu/6.031/www/sp21/classes/15-equality/#@python)Python           | `is`                      | `==`                   |
| [](https://web.mit.edu/6.031/www/sp21/classes/15-equality/#@javascript)JavaScript   | `==`                      | n/a                    |
### Implementing `equals()`

#### A better way to implement `equals()`
```java
@Override
public boolean equals(Object that) {
    return that instanceof Duration && this.sameValue((Duration)that);
}

// returns true iff this and that represent the same abstract value
private boolean sameValue(Duration that) {
    return this.getLength() == that.getLength();
}
```
#### instanceof
The ==`instanceof`== operator tests whether an object is an instance of a particular type. Using `instanceof` is dynamic type checking, not the static type checking we vastly prefer. In general, using `instanceof` in object-oriented programming is a bad smell. In good object-oriented programming, **`instanceof` is disallowed anywhere except for implementing `equals`**. This prohibition also includes other ways of inspecting objects’ runtime types. For example, [`getClass`](http://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/Object.html#getClass()) is also disallowed.

#### Breaking hash tables
The standard way to construct a more reasonable hash code that still satisfies the contract is to compute a hash code for **each component of the object** that is used in the determination of equality (usually by calling the `hashCode` method of each component), and then combining these, throwing in a few arithmetic operations.
Recent versions of Java now have a utility method [`Objects.hash()`](http://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/15/docs/api/java.base/java/util/Objects.html#hash(java.lang.Object...)) that makes it easier to implement a hash code involving multiple fields.
```java
@Override
public int hashCode() {
    return (int) getLength();
}

```
**Always override `hashCode` when you override `equals`.**

### Equality of mutable types
- **observational equality**  only observers and producers, not mutators
- **behavioral equality**  even if a mutator is called to change the state of one object but not the other

	1、数组是一个Object对象，所以直接使用数组的[equals](https://so.csdn.net/so/search?q=equals&spm=1001.2101.3001.7020)()方法，实际上是使用Object类的equals()方法。  
	2、[Object类](https://so.csdn.net/so/search?q=Object%E7%B1%BB&spm=1001.2101.3001.7020)的equals()方法，实质上还是使用比较对象**地址**。
	3、 Arrays.equals(a, b) 比较的是元素内容

```java
List<String> list = new ArrayList<>();
list.add("a");

Set<List<String>> set = new HashSet<List<String>>();
set.add(list);

set.contains(list) → true

list.add("goodbye");

set.contains(list) → false!
```

`List<String>` is a mutable object. In the standard Java implementation of collection classes like `List`, mutations affect the result of `equals()` and `hashCode()`. When the list is first put into the `HashSet`, it is stored in the hash bucket corresponding to its `hashCode()` result at that time. When the list is subsequently mutated, its `hashCode()` changes, but `HashSet` doesn’t realize it should be moved to a different bucket. So it can never be found again.


### The final rule for equals() and hashCode()
**For immutable types**:

- Behavioral equality is the same as observational equality.
- `equals()` must be overridden to compare abstract values.
- `hashCode()` must be overriden to map the abstract value to an integer.

**For mutable types**:

- Behavioral equality is different from observational equality.
- `equals()` should generally not be overriden, but inherit the implementation from `Object` that compares **references**, just like `==`.
- `hashCode()` should likewise not be overridden, but inherit `Object`’s implementation that maps the reference into an integer.

For a mutable type that needs a notion of observational equality (whether two mutable objects “look” the same in the current state), it’s better to define a completely new operation, which might be called `similar()` or `sameValue()`. Its implementation would be similar to the private `sameValue()` helper method we have been writing for immutable types, but it would be a public operation available to clients. Unfortunately the Java library did not make that design decision.